This video we'll take our first program which we've compiled to show that it's got no errors and we'll
build it.
Now if you recall building means compiling linking together with extra libraries and external files
if we need to.
And creating an executor file that's what building is all about.
There are several steps involved with building the first one obviously is compiling.
If we can't get a clean compile then there's no way we're going to build a system.
So we want to be able to compile and then link to create to each file.
Finally we can run our executable.
So in this case you notice here's the source code and there's a lot of space in here.
Normally we don't have all the space in here.
I just put it in because it makes it a little bit easier for you to read when you're first learning.
So let's just keep it like that.
This program is exactly the same as it was before we're entering.
We're asking the user to enter their favorite number between 1 and 100.
We're getting that number and storing it in a variable called favorite number.
And then we're just saying amazing That's my favorite number two but it's really really simple program.
And we've already compiled it.
There's a couple of ways to compile.
One is you can come to the source file itself right click compile or you can come up to build compile
current file and that's only taking care of the compilation.
There's also a lot of things you could do at the project level right here so if I select a project and
right click you can see that it says build rebuild clean stop build and so forth.
Let's talk about clean first.
Now think about this.
When I compile a C++ program I'm converting the source code.
This source code you see here to an object format right a machine language or a binary format that's
going to create a dot o file or a dot RBJ file as we mentioned in previous lectures.
That's the purpose of compiling.
Now as your programs are compiled there you have many of these dot object files.
The clean process removes all those object files and puts your project in a clean state.
In other words source code only no object files.
Now why is this important.
It's important because when you compile your programs and build your programs sometimes you want to
do a clean build.
What that means is I want to start from a position where nothing has been billed as want to clean everything
up.
Now when we're working with a single file like here it's pretty much a moot point because it's just
one file but typically C++ programs are very large and you've got a lot of C++ files.
Each one of them is being compiled to an object format and when you say hey compiler built forming the
compiler is only going to build exactly what it needs to build.
So if it realizes that this source code already has an object file associated with it and the source
code hasn't changed then why bother building it again right.
So it's not going to build it and it does that to be efficient which makes a lot of sense.
But occasionally you want to do a clean that removes all of that stuff.
It removes the X-C that was created and then you want to build again.
So now we're going to get a clean build again.
This is really not an issue here when we've got one C.P. file but if you've got thousands and thousands
and thousands of files there can be a significant difference in the amount of time that it takes to
do that build.
OK so in this case I can come over here to the project.
I could right click and I can say clean and you'll see here that clean is complete.
All it did was remove any object files on the X Files.
Then I can say Build Now when I say build by saying build project here pressing f7 or on Mac whatever
the option command option is work and right click on the project and say build now what's going to happen
here is it's going to go through your project.
Looking at all the C++ files and only build what it needs to build.
OK.
Now in this case it's going to build everything because it's just the one file and I haven't built it
yet but it's going to not build.
What it does it need to build and that's important to understand rebuild is the combination of a clean
and a build.
So when you say hey rebuild the project it's going to do a clean it's going to clean everything out
and then it's going to build it again for the beginning of this course.
All of these are going to be just fine.
You can use rebuilds because we're going to be pretty quick.
Finally once we get a build we can run the project the way we do that is we come up.
Again remember we've got the active project here.
I can come up to build and run.
Now if I do that now we have an option.
We can simply execute the EFC file if there if there is one there or we can choose to build and execute.
I would generally tell you to select build and execute and probably remember my answer.
Don't ask me again would be a pretty good idea because most of the time our files are going to be fairly
small and a build is not going to take any time at all.
So we can build and execute.
So that's how you run.
But say I want to do that now I want to say build and execute and there's my program.
It says enter your favorite number between 1 and 100 that say I type in 24 press center.
It says amazing That's my favorite number two.
Now this time elapsed is how long the program took to run.
This is being displayed in the latest version of Code light prior to this last version you didn't see
that and I think it's Windows the it's being displayed.
I didn't see that display on a Mac.
When you run the taxi filed it's created from the command line you don't see that.
That's just mostly for a flyby so that you can tell as a developer.
You know if there's something wrong and how quick your programs write.
Press any key to continue I'm done.
Now one of the things that I want to show you notice this workspace view which is where I'm at right
now and again I've got three projects here.
Each one has a main Where's the X Files were the object files.
Where is all that stuff that they should be there right.
Absolutely there they should be there they are there.
The Ids generally hide that information from you because you don't need to know about it really.
I mean do you care that there's an object file or an easy file really what you care about is these error
messages and and so forth.
But we have this explorer tab and that will let you see all that.
I want to show you what that looks like.
You can click on the Explorer tab and then you can drag any folder from your operating system from your
file system on to here so I can just right click open folder and I'm going to select from my desktop
C-p examples that section for for do that's where my workspace is selected.
So you can see if I expand this.
You could see a bunch more stuff.
Now I've got a dot code like folder that has things that are related to my favorites and compilation
and refactoring and so forth.
I've also got my three projects first program project one project to.
I've got to make file I've got my workspace file.
But let's look at first program for a second.
Now you can see a little extra stuff going on right before all we saw was main C.P. And now we see all
this other stuff.
These are the files and the configuration files that code light is using behind the scenes.
The ideal workspace here abstracts that out since you don't really need to know all that information
to build your system.
It's building it for you.
But if you really want to see them you can or you can just look right in your file system.
Now if I look in my first program debug folder you'll see that there's my X-C first program doddy you
see it right here and there you can see my dot object files and data files and all kinds of stuff that's
going on.
Now you'll see it first again.
First program debug.
Now what I'm going to do now is I'm going to clean first program and all of this stuff should be removed.
So again I'm going to go to build clean project now if I refreshed this view by right clicking appear
refresh and go back to first program you can see it's all gone the entire debug folder is gone the object
files are gone the files are gone everything's gone.
So now when I rebuild all that will be created again and I noticed that debug folder right.
If I come back to my workspace There's my first program.
Notice that we've got build configurations here and there's a couple.
You've got debug and release.
You can choose either one.
We're going to use Debug through out the entire course because that's what we're doing we're basically
developing right here release is when you want to release the file from two productions for users to
use.
So in this case debug creates that debug folder that you solve that a bit ago.
If we do this in release mode we'll get a release folder as well so we'll have to eat xes.
Now the difference is the debug configuration creates object files that has debugging information in
them.
It's got all those variable names and stuff so later on when we debug our program we can have all that
information available to us and it makes us very very productive and really helps us debug and test
our code.
The release configuration removes all of that stuff and it does more optimizations and it just makes
your Ex-Sea leaner and meaner so you don't need all that debugging information at runtime.
So like I said we're going to use Debug.
You can certainly use this if you like.
If you do use this because you're curious or you want to see what's going on don't modify anything from
in here.
I mean as a matter of fact if I try to open up this makefile you'll see it says auto generated by code
like don't change it or even if you do change it we're going to blow it away anyway.
And so you really don't need any of that.
This is where we're going to be working in the workspace mode.
But I just wanted to show you how that clean really really works.
OK so again let's recap here.
I can select first program right click clean that will remove all my object files in the file.
I can rebuild in which case it will clean and build or I can simply build and that will only build what
needs to be built.
Hopefully that makes sense it's little difference between them but it said you should understand it's
not that big that big a difference.
Now finally we want to run.
We come here to run.
So let's do this one more time build and execute.
And your favorite number my favorite number is 100 does time.
Amazing That's my favorite number too.
That's exactly what our program is supposed to do.
Now you'll notice a couple of things here.
One is we're really not using favorite number are we.
I mean the users typing it in but we're not really saying wow that's a great number 13 that you answer
or 100 that you enter that you'll do that in the challenge exercise in this section.
But right now we were grabbing at we're storing it into that variable but we're not really using it
afterward.
And like I said in the Challenge video you will use it.
So that's it.
That's pretty much the build process the compile process the run process.
It's fairly straightforward if you've got the toolbar you can click on buttons to do this but in this
course I'll come up here and do these things are all just right click here and do what I need to do
here as well.
That's it.
Remember you can also come up to the workspace and right click on the workspace you can build the entire
workspace or clean the entire workspace and create the files for all the projects all in one shot.
OK that's it for that.
Now in the next video what we'll do is we'll talk about compiler errors and compiler warnings and we'll
mess around with this program a little bit and I'll show you some of the common errors and some of the
common warnings that you could get as well as why they happen throughout the course.
We're obviously going to see a lot of compiler errors.
I make it a point that when I teach I'm just coding along with you.
So I hope I make some mistakes so you can see some of the common compiler errors.
I'm not trying to make them intentionally but sometimes you know you forget a semi-colon or you forget
to do this.
This is the wrong type.
So that's important that you see these types of errors happening and you can know how to fix them.
All right so I'll see you in the next video.